# IT Implementation Plan Design Phase

Many organizations not only create IT policies, but there’s also the need to create or update enterprise policies aligned with information systems and security provisions for the entire organization. One example is HR employee demographics and personal identifiable information (PII), payroll and health care benefits data, finance, accounting management policies, and procurement management policies. Organizations should have a framework to ensure that each department will have clear procedures for the creation and submission of policies into a policy repository.

In this section, you will explore additional research on the IT strategic planning process, and how policies, standards, and procedures are designed, internally configured, and managed to reflect expected process integrity and security. You need to validate that all policy requirements and provisions comply with applicable statutes and requirements, both internal to the organization, as well as external law mandates.

An essential part of this process is to leverage all parameters, rules, coding, and configuration to ensure they do not disrupt operations, systems execution, and performance, but do still manage to control and protect perimeter and data/application integrity during processing and safeguard stored data.

In the previous sections, you researched the importance of IT governance and its components—mainly strategic plans, policies, standards, and procedures. You developed a policy roadmap for SOP development, approval and implementation process, and milestones. Now that you have the platform already in place, you will develop an assessment or evaluation tool designed to identify specific areas to configure, code, set rules or parameters, or even install and configure appliances (e.g., firewall), or software tools for policy framework and content validation, both in written policies, and internal parameter settings and configurations.

During the next few weeks, you will conduct advanced doctoral-level research leading to create a proposal in anticipation of your upcoming dissertation. You will also have an opportunity to apply the concepts of this course by creating a framework for IT Policy Management.
