# Planning Phase

During this course, you will examine concepts and practices for information technology (IT) policy and strategy formulation and management, from both an academic and a practical perspective. IT policy and strategy are critical topics of a sound IT governance framework, which states the rules and standards for operations, hardware implementation and management, software development and control, and data management. IT governance is defined as the governing model or framework that sets the rules and policies all employees, users, and stakeholders must follow within an organization (Wilkinson, 2019).

It is essential for IT professionals to understand strategic plans, policies, standards, and procedures to ensure systems and application control parameters are considered, implemented, and observed. These policies, standards, and procedures must be applied to all network and application design, development, and implementation tasks. This means that all required controls mandated either by laws, regulations, or internal policies must be configured and implemented in operating systems, databases, and applications. Compliance is accomplished by managing parameters, logical rules and constraints, application validation, selection, and processing controls, operating environment, user awareness, and monitoring. Policies are legal in nature and, therefore, must be approved by executive management, distributed to all stakeholders and users, and communicated via user-awareness training.

Throughout the course, you will act as a practitioner or manager tasked with assessing and presenting an IT implementation plan for a given solution, or as an external contractor proposing an IT implementation strategic solution. Each week, you will work on different phases of the signature assignment, which is to create a strategic policy and standards plan for computer science implementations. Every assignment in this course will require the integration of theoretical concepts and research using tools, figures, tables, and graphs. Your plan must support systems engineering, software design, naming standards, taxonomies, network, or cloud network infrastructure implementation procedures in support of enterprise operations.

## Reference

Wilkinson, P. (2019, April 1). IT governance 101: IT governance for dummies, Part 2: The marriage counselor. COBIT Focus, 1–5.
